[BLOG] Getting started as a TAG ENV Contributor (#268)
cncf/tag-env-sustainability: website/content/blog/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-env-contributor.md

---
title: Getting started as a TAG Environmental Sustainability Contributor
description: Getting started as a TAG Environmental Sustainability Contributor
slug: 2023-getting-started-as-tag-env-contributor
weight: 1
date:   2023-11-07 00:00:00 +0000
author: Antonio Di Turi, Atreay Kukanur, Mfon Nta
reviewers: Kristina Devochko, Leonard Pahlke, Marlow Weston
---

## Getting started as a TAG Environmental Sustainability Contributor

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We serve as a knowledge hub for sharing insights and fostering eco-friendly innovations. Your contributions help nurture successful open source projects focused on sustainability.
We provide resources and support, ensuring you don't have to start from scratch.
[TAG ENV](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/blob/main/charter.md), as a [Technical Advisory Group](https://github.com/cncf/toc/tree/main/tags), collaborates with the open source community, working towards defining environmental sustainability factors for the cloud native landscape.
Our mission includes incubating open source projects to measure and reduce carbon footprints in cloud native infrastructure.
We aim to raise awareness of environmental sustainability in open source and support projects that promote energy-efficient solutions, positively impacting the community.

> <p class="mt-5 mb-5"><img src="/images/blogs/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-environmental-sustainability-contributor/tag-working-groups.png" alt="Overview of TAG Environmental Sustainability structure and Working Groups"></p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="mt-5 mb-5"><img src="/images/blogs/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-env-contributor/tag-working-groups.png" alt="Overview of TAG Environmental Sustainability structure and Working Groups"></p>
```

[Join us](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability#contact) and let's make a difference together!

## Making a meaningful impact as part of the CNCF TAG Environmental Sustainability

> <p class="mt-5 mb-5"><img src="/images/blogs/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-environmental-sustainability-contributor/7-simple-ways-to-contribute.png" alt="Visualization of different ways how one can contribute to the TAG Environmental Sustainability"></p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="mt-5 mb-5"><img src="/images/blogs/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-env-contributor/7-simple-ways-to-contribute.png" alt="Visualization of different ways how one can contribute to the TAG Environmental Sustainability"></p>
```

Our mission includes incubating open source projects to measure and reduce carbon footprints in cloud native infrastructure.
We aim to raise awareness of environmental sustainability in open source and support projects that promote energy-efficient solutions, positively impacting the community.

<p class="mt-5 mb-5"><img src="/images/blogs/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-environmental-sustainability-contributor/tag-working-groups.png" alt="Overview of TAG Environmental Sustainability structure and Working Groups"></p>

[Join us](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability#contact) and let's make a difference together!

## Making a meaningful impact as part of the CNCF TAG Environmental Sustainability

<p class="mt-5 mb-5"><img src="/images/blogs/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-environmental-sustainability-contributor/7-simple-ways-to-contribute.png" alt="Visualization of different ways how one can contribute to the TAG Environmental Sustainability"></p>

With the mounting challenges our planet faces, efforts from all corners are essential.

> 

Reviewer 2: lets join these two paragraphs
```suggestion
```

8. [Events & Meetups:](https://tag-env-sustainability.cncf.io/events/) If you lean more towards communications and networking, you're in for a treat! The TAG ENV meets in-person at major conferences like KubeCon+CloudNativeCon and Open Source Summit. In addition TAG ENV organizes global events like the [Cloud Native Sustainability Week](https://github.com/orgs/cncf/projects/10/views/11) where both a virtual mini conference and local [cloud native meetups](https://community.cncf.io) were organized by a larger, international community. If you have ideas or want to organize an event dedicated to the cloud native sustainability where you live, the TAG ENV community would be thrilled to help you out and support you in making it happen!

Every individual, irrespective of their expertise or background, has something valuable to offer. If the topic of environmental sustainability resonates with you, the TAG ENV awaits your unique touch. Dive in, and together, let's make a difference!

## Can YOU help shape the future of the TAG Environmental Sustainability?

Yes, you can!

> TAG ENV is a community-driven organization, and every member's input is highly valued and appreciated. If you have an idea that you would like to propose to the TAG ENV community, the first step is to check if this idea already exists as a project or otherwise. You can check the [issues](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/issues) page for closed and open issues where you discuss your idea or reopen an old discussion.

Author: Makes sense!

Scope your idea and refer to the first-time contributors quickstart from our [contributor guide](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#first-time-contributors). It is advisable to refer to the [governance folder](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/tree/main/governance) to get a better understanding of different processes in the TAG.

> Your idea can be phrased in the form of a detailed proposal, a blog post, or even a presentation. It may be a message in Slack or a GitHub issue. You can write a full-fledged proposal from the beginning and once your idea is documented, you can  share it with the group in [#tag-environmental-sustainability](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03F270PDU6) channel on [CNCF Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03F270PDU6), where the group members actively discuss and provide feedback on new ideas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your idea can be phrased in the form of a detailed proposal, a blog post, or even a presentation. It may be a message in Slack or a GitHub issue. You can write a full-fledged proposal from the beginning and once your idea is documented, you can  share it with the group in [#tag-environmental-sustainability](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03F270PDU6) channel on [CNCF Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03F270PDU6), where the TAG actively discusses new ideas.
```

---
title: Getting started as a TAG Environmental Sustainability Contributor
description: Getting started as a TAG Environmental Sustainability Contributor

> slug: tbd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: 2023-getting-started-as-tag-env-contributor
```

Author: solved, check last commit

weight: 1
date:   2023-11-07 00:00:00 +0000
author: Antonio Di Turi, Atreay Kukanur, Mfon Nta
reviewers: Kristina Devochko, Leonard Pahlke, Marlow Weston
---

## Getting started as a TAG Environmental Sustainability Contributor

> <p class="mt-5 mb-5"><img src="/images/blogs/2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-environmental-sustainability-contributor/tag-env-logo.png" alt="TAG Environmental Sustainability Logo"></p>

Reviewer 2: we need to update the image references to load the pictures

`2023-11-getting-started-as-a-tag-env-contributor`

Author: solved!

> If you are reading this blog it might be that you are looking forward to starting contributing to sustainability in the cloud native world.  This document will help you, and you can start by becoming a member of the TAG or one of its associated working groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are reading this blog it might be that you are interested in contributing to the cloud native sustainability domain. This document will help you and guide you through the different possibilities that are available for you, like becoming a member of the TAG Environmental Sustainability or one of its associated working groups.
```

Reviewer 2: > This document will help you

In this blog [...]

Reviewer 2: > becoming a member of the TAG

we do not really have "members" of the tag. Lets rephrase it. There are leadership roles but no membership roles. We do not have membership roles because it is not associated with anything, like specific tasks. So everyone can be considered a member or not. Managing members without any benefit just creates overhead.

Author: solved, check last commit

> Starting to contribute to open source and cloud native communities may often seem challenging and scary for beginners, but there are many ways you can embark on this journey. One way to join the community is to become a member of one of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation Technical Advisory Groups (CNCF TAG).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting to contribute to open source and cloud native communities may often seem challenging and scary for beginners, but there are many ways you can embark on this journey. One way to engage with the community is to contribute to one of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation Technical Advisory Groups (CNCF TAG).
```

IMO if we say one option is, we should name more than just this one option :D 

1. join a TAG
2. contribute to a CNCF project (<-- this is the "normal" / "standard" way to contribute)

depending how you cut contribution you can also list things like organizing a cloud native themed meetup and all the other community focsued tasks but i would not mention this at this point.

Author: solved, check last commit

> The Technical Advisory Group consists of members that focus on a specific area of the CNCF landscape by providing guidance, addressing challenges from the community and establishing domain-specific standards and best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The Technical Advisory Group** consists of members that focus on a specific area of the CNCF landscape by providing guidance, addressing challenges from the community and establishing domain-specific standards and best practices.
```

Reviewer 2: again, lets cut members (see comment before)

Author: solved, check last commit

> CNCF Technical Advisory Group Environmental Sustainability is always open for new members and we hope that this article can help you clarify any concerns and questions you may have around joining the TAG, as well as make it easier for you to take those first steps in joining the community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I sense that this is the intro text 2.0. If we cut it, do we loose info?

Author: fine for me

> With this blog post we would like to cover a few topics that you may be wondering about when it comes to getting started as a TAG ENV Contributor:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are curious about the TAG and play with the ideas to contribute you likely ask yourself the following questions.
 ```

Reviewer: @AntonioDiTuri this one doesn't seem to be resolved?

> - What TAG Environmental Sustainability (TAG ENV) is all about, what its mission, goals and non-goals are, as well as what kind of activities and subgroups exist in the TAG.
> - Why YOU joining the TAG Environmental Sustainability makes an important and positive impact in the cloud native sustainability space and what YOU can gain from joining us.
> - Step-by-step walkthrough of different ways for you to join the TAG and get involved in our ongoing initiatives.
> - How YOU can share ideas, discussion topics, improvements and any other suggestions to the TAG ENV. It’s never enough to say that all feedback is highly appreciated and welcomed in the group!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What are the goals of the TAG ENV and how do they work with each other?
- How does my contribution help with sustainability efforts?
- Which projects does the TAG ENV has and how can I contribute to them?
- How can I share ideas, improvements and any other suggestions to the TAG ENV?
```

Reviewer: @AntonioDiTuri this one doesn't seem to be resolved?

> ## Introducing Technical Advisory Group Environmental Sustainability (TAG ENV)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Introducing the CNCF TAG Environmental Sustainability
```

> The Technical Advisory Group Environmental Sustainability, commonly referred to as TAG ENV, operates as part of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) alongside several other [TAGs](https://github.com/cncf/toc/tree/main/tags#current-tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The Technical Advisory Group Environmental Sustainability**, commonly referred to as **TAG ENV**, operates as part of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) alongside several other [TAGs](https://github.com/cncf/toc/tree/main/tags#current-tags).
```

Author: solved, check last commit

> Drawing inspiration from international frameworks such as the Paris Climate Accords, the TAG ENV sets out with a clear agenda: contribute to tackling global environmental challenges by identifying ways to reduce the environmental footprint of steadily growing data centers and expanding cloud native technologies landscape.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Drawing inspiration from international frameworks such as the Paris Climate Accords, the TAG ENV sets out with a clear agenda: work with the cloud native community to tackle global environmental challenges by identifying ways to reduce the environmental footprint of steadily growing data centers and expanding the cloud native technologies landscape.
```

> TAG ENV's mission centers around advocating for, developing, and supporting environmental sustainability initiatives specific to cloud native technologies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
There is a section below that goes into more detail. IMO, this sentence reads a bit like a repetition of the previous section.

You can find more information about the TAG ENV’s mission in the [charter document](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/blob/main/charter.md).

> The group focuses on identifying ways to reduce the environmental footprint of the cloud native technologies as well as providing actionable strategies and guidance on the same.
> Our ambition is to steer the industry towards a greener future, where cloud native tooling can help reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
we already mentioned this, right?

Author: Yeah being written with multiple hands this can happen, we can take it off, thanks!

3. [Attend TAG ENV Regular Meetings](https://tockify.com/cncf.public.events/monthly?search=TAG%20Environmental%20Sustainability): These meetings offer a 360° view of what's happening within the TAG: latest news, latest projects, newcomers. You can introduce yourself and let us know what brought you here! Can't wait to hear your story!

4. [Engage on Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/cloud-native/cncf): For a more informal setting, join the [#tag-env-sustainability](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03F270PDU6) and[#wg-green-reviews](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C060EDHN431) channels on [CNCF Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/cloud-native/cncf). Say hello to the community, engage in discussions, and comment on posts that pique your interest. This platform allows you to foster connections with other members and stay updated on day-to-day happenings.

5. [Contribute to the TAG ENV Working Groups](https://tag-env-sustainability.cncf.io/about/working-groups/): If you can't wait to make a hands-on difference, this is your avenue.

> 6. All the details about the Working Groups goals, non-goals and ongoing activities can be found here: <https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/tree/main/working-groups>. Right now we have two working groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

6. All the details about the Working Groups goals, non-goals and ongoing activities can be found here: <https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/tree/main/working-groups>. Right now we have two working groups:
```

>    - Green Reviews. This group aims to design a strategic approach to aid CNCF projects in tracing and improving their environmental sustainability footprint. Intrigued? Dive into the specifics by checking out [the charter](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/blob/main/working-groups/green-reviews/charter.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Green Reviews.** This group aims to design a strategic approach to aid CNCF projects in tracing and improving their environmental sustainability footprint. Intrigued? Dive into the specifics by checking out [the charter](https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/blob/main/working-groups/green-reviews/charter.md).
```

>    - Communications. Effective communication is as crucial as the technical work itself, as it ensures that the impactful actions of our working group are understood and appreciated by a wider audience. The working group charter will be published soon, but for now you can find additional details in following PR: <https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/pull/247>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Communications.** Effective communication is as crucial as the technical work itself, as it ensures that the impactful actions of our working group are understood and appreciated by a wider audience. The working group charter will be published soon, but for now you can find additional details in following PR: <https://github.com/cncf/tag-env-sustainability/pull/247>
```
